# Rasmussen_Hirschman_Linkages

Hirschman (1977, p. 73) defines an industry's linkage effect as the forces that facilitate investments it set into motion through input-output relations. While backward linkages refer to novel rounds of investment in input-supplying sectors, forward linkages refer to investments facilitated in industries that use that input. In the energy industry, a backward linkage refers to the demand for goods and services that the chain supplies to that industry, and a forward linkage refers mostly to energy, ideally cheaply priced and in abundant quantities, as input to a firm’s production endeavor. Besides backward and forward linkages, the author also refers to “fiscal linkages,” why refer to the flow of rents that accrue from the resource-rich sector to the state, in the form of taxes and other proceeds (ibid, p. 73). Fiscal linkages are part of the broader linkages framework, for they permit the forging of stable backward and forward linkages in the economy if taxation policy is efficient. This may occur with a time lag if society chooses to postpone investment decisions. In successful Energy Developmentalist projects, countries forge potent backward and forward between the booming resource sector and the rest of the economy, particularly the manufacturing sector.  The more efficient the fiscal linkages the country’s fiscal authority manages to forge with the resource sector, the larger the probability of successful Energy developmentalist projects.
Hirschman devised his linkages framework to contest the worldview that also in an economy scarcely supplied by factors of production and entrepreneurship, it would be best to leave to the market coordinating the process of economic development by allocating the economy’s resources. In contrast to this view, Hirschman believed that to steer economic development, it was secondary to “finding optimal combinations for given resources for given resources and factors of production” and “enlisting for development purposes resources and abilities that are hidden, scattered, or badly utilized” (Hirschman, 1992, pp. 56-7). The author proposes an unbalanced growth strategy in which investment decisions are important not only because of their short-term effects but also because of their effect on future investment decisions because of linkages (ibid). The chosen project’s unintended consequences and broader economic and political complementarities also contribute to another’s flourishing. In some contexts, a project's unintended consequences may be decisive for the project’s consecution or have much more significant developmental consequences than the project itself (Hirschman, 1967, pp. 161-5; Grabel, 2017, p. 37). In developing economies, the existence of backward and forward linkages are criteria for choosing among contending alternative projects or industrial sectors, allowing to rank “economic activities in accordance with their igniting potential” (Hirschman, 1967, p. 177-8, 183). In these countries, the state steps in and helps allocate scarce resources between rivaling projects and sectors, thus choosing those sectors that have potentially the strongest linkages. In this chapter, it will be seen that the energy sector has been chosen as a priority sector very frequently.  
